# CAMSIS
Cambridge Social Interaction and Stratification scales 

Content summary: 
This github area provides alternative access to data files and linked resources associated with CAMSIS measures which are used in social science research. Most data resources are also available, and described in more detail, at the CAMSIS project website (www.camsis.stir.ac.uk). The github copy of materals has been populated and maintained since Autumn 2024 by Paul Lambert, an academic sociologist contributing to the CAMSIS project. 

Research descriptor: 
'CAMSIS' measures are occupation-based indicators of the social stratification circumstances typical of the incumbents of a given occupation in a particular society, calculated on the basis of analysis of social interaction patterns exhibited by the incumbents of occupations. They are usually used in academic social science research as one way of measuring social inequality (e.g. an individual with a higher CAMSIS score - based upon their occupation - is considered more advantaged than one with a lower score). 

The CAMSIS project usually refers to a set of linked research endeavours undertaken 1999-present by academic researchers who generated and disseminated numerous CAMSIS scales for different countries and time periods. The project was initiated by Professor Ken Prandy (Cardiff University), itself taking forward his previous work over many years on the 'Cambridge scale' by himself and colleagues at the University of Cambridge (Bob Blackburn, Ken Prandy and Sandy Stewart). Since 2005, further work has been undertaken sporadically by Paul Lambert (University of Stirling), often in collaboration with colleagues with specific interest in certain countries or time periods.    

An extended description of the CAMSIS project and its measures is found on its website, www.camsis.stir.ac.uk . 

Data descriptor: 
The main products of the CAMSIS project are databases which link occupation records (usually 'occupational unit groups', for taxonomic descriptors of occupational categories) with CAMSIS scale scores for a given country and time period. There are often additional specifiers for whether the score is calculated on male or female occupations and the employment status category for the occupation, plus additional metadata is often supplied (for instance, the number of cases representing that occupation in the analysis by which the scale score was derived). 

There are numerous databases supplied by the CAMSIS project (and copied to the github site). The workflow expecation is that a social researcher would identify which database(s) are relevant to their analysis, then download them and link them to their own data resources. For instance, a typical use case might be to attach CAMSIS scale scores to a UK social survey dataset which used SOC2010 occupational units, by downloading the CAMSIS database for UK SOC2010 units, then running a match-merge process in statistical analytical software to ensure that each case from the survey dataset has a variable that indicates its CAMSIS score on the basis of its occuaption. 

The 'core data' within CAMSIS databases usually comprise an occupational code and CAMSIS scores for it. E.g. "soczz mcam fcam / 1234 68 71 / 1235 66 64 /..." represents a typical extract that might indicate that on the occupational unit group taxonomy called 'soczz', the CAMSIS score on the male scale is 68 for occupational unit 1234, and 66 for occupational unit 1235, and so forth. Additional metadata about these databases, or other variables within them, is usually available on the CAMSIS website (www.camsis.stir.ac.uk) and is sometimes incorporated within the database itself (e.g. in a readme file or in attached labels and descriptors), although coverage is not always consistent across different versions. Prospective users struggling to make sense of databases are encouraged to read across the CAMSIS website in the first instance, but could consider contacting the author of the relevant database for guidance if necessary.  

Some resources are provided of a different nature, such as coding records in selected software, other metadata resources that are often useful in combination with CAMSIS databases, and academic working papers and other academic outputs. 

Version control: 
The majority of files and resources on this github site were generated and disseminated via the CAMSIS website in the period 1999-2011. There have been occassional updates continuously since that period (the most recent set of updates to resources is indicated below). 

Authorship of the databases is usually indicated on the CAMSIS project website as well as within metadata in the databases. The most common arrangement is that the database was generated by Paul Lambert (University of Stirling), often in collaboration with other academic research colleagues depending on the relevant version. 

At time of writing both the CAMSIS webpages and github site are maintained solely by Paul Lambert, on a voluntary basis. There are some other academic resources, external to the CAMSIS project, which provide similar databases or resources. Accordingly, the materials accessible from www.camsis.stir.ac.uk and this github site can be thought of as the archives of relevant databases and resoruces known to and published by the website author. 

Last noted edits to content of CAMSIS webpages: 17 Oct 2024
Last noted edits to content of github resources: 17 Oct 2024



